PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET
I. T. Research Institute

PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET

ADCORTYL™

INTRA-ARTICULAR/INTRADERMAL INJECTION 10 mg/ml

Triamcinolone acetonide

Your doctor has prescribed Adcortyl injection for you. This leaflet
gives a summary of information about your medicine. If you want to know
more, or are not sure about anything, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

REMEMBER: This medicine is for YOU. Only a doctor can prescribe it.
Never give

it to anyone else. It may harm them even if they have the same symptoms
as you

Q. WHAT IS IN ADCORTYL INTRA-ARTICULAR/INTRADERMAL (IA/ID) INJECTION?

A. Adcortyl IA/lD injection contains triamcinolone acetonide which is a
member of the group of medicines known as steroids. The injection
contains triamcinolone acetonide 10mg/ml and is supplied in 1.0 ml glass
ampoules or 5ml glass vials. The other ingredients are benzyl alcohol,
polysorbate 80, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, sodium chloride and
water.

UK PRODUCT LICENCE

Held by: E R Squibb & Sons Limited, 141-149 Staines Road, Hounslow TW3
3JA

IRISH PRODUCT AUTHORISATION

Held by: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Dublin, Ireland

MANUFACTURER

Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH, Donaustauferstrasse 378, D-93055 Regensburg,

Germany

Q. WHAT IS THIS MEDICINE FOR?

A. Adcortyl IA/ID injection is for the treatment of joint pain, swelling
and stiffness in inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. It
is also used to treat various forms of allergic dermatitis, skin
overgrowths such as thickened scar tissue, and patchy baldness, which is
usually reversible.

BEFORE RECEIVING YOUR MEDICINE

Q. Should I be receiving Adcortyl IA ID injection?

A. You should not receive this medicine if you have ever had an allergic
reaction to similar medicines or to any of the ingredients in Adcortyl
IA ID injection. You should not receive this medicine if you are
suffering from an infection unless your doctor has also prescribed a
treatment for the infection.

Q. Is there anything else I should discuss with my doctor before
receiving Adcortyl IA/ID injection?

A. Check with your doctor before receiving Adcortyl IA ID injection if
you have had any recent infection, tuberculosis (TB), bowel disorders,
an ulcer blood clots cancer, thin (brittle) bones, high blood pressure
or heart failure, mental disorders, epilepsy, myasthenia gravis or
glaucoma (increased pressure in your eyes).

Q. What if I have been in contact with someone who has Chickenpox or
Shingles?

A. Tell your doctor immediately if you have not had chickenpox yourself
as these diseases can be dangerous to patients taking steroid medicines
as the steroids suppress your body's natural immune responses.

Q. Can I be immunised (vaccinated)?

A. While you are being treated with this medicine (or if you have
recently stopped a course of treatment) do not have any immunisation
without consulting your doctor.

Q. What if I am pregnant or think I may be pregnant? What if I am
planning to become pregnant? What if I am breast-feeding?

A. You should make sure you discuss this with your doctor as soon as
possible before receiving Adcortyl IA/ID injection.

Q. What if I have had problems with my kidneys, liver or thyroid?

A. Remind your doctor as the dose of Adcortyl may need to be adjusted.

Q. Can I take other medicines?

A. Do not take aspirin while receiving Adcortyl IA/ID injection if you
have blood disorders. Always tell your doctor about all other medicines
you are taking, even those you have bought at a pharmacy or other
places, e.g. supermarket. Some medicines used to treat epilepsy,
tuberculosis or breast cancer can reduce the effectiveness of Adcortyl.
On the other hand, Adcortyl can affect the action of some medicines used
to treat diabetes, high blood pressure or to thin the blood.

Q. Is it all right to take exercise?

A. You must take care not to over-use a joint which feels better after
you receive Adcortyl IA ID injection as the joint will still need to
recover from the inflammation which caused your symptoms.

Continued

Q Is it all right to drive?

A This medicine does not usually affect your ability to drive but it can
affect your eyesight. Tell your doctor immediately if you have any pain
in the eyes or visual disturbances.

Q. Is it all right to drink alcohol?

A There is no known interaction between Adcortyl and alcohol.

Q. What if I am diabetic?

A. Remind your doctor as your insulin dose may need to be changed

Q. Who should I tell that I have received this injection?

A. Your doctor or pharmacist will have given you a Steroid Treatment
Card with your prescription or medicine. YOU SHOULD ALWAYS CARRY THIS
CARD WITH YOU as it must be shown to any of the following persons:

Doctor or Nurse - before having any surgery or emergency treatment or if
any new treatment is prescribed.

Dentist - before having any dental surgery Pharmacist - before buying
any medicines

Optician - it is advisable to have regular eye tests.

ADMINISTRATION OF YOUR MEDICINE

Q. How will Adcortyl IA/ID injection be given and how often?

A. The effect of the injection will vary from patient to patient and
further injections may be given when symptoms return and not at regular
intervals.

Use in inflammatory joint disorders:

The dose of injection to be given into a joint or into a tendon sheath
depends upon the size of the joint to be treated and the seventy of the
condition. Doses of 2.5-5 mg (0.25-0.5 ml) for smaller joints and 5-15
mg (0.5-1.5 ml) for larger joints usually give relief of symptoms. This
medicine should not be used for injection into the Achilles tendon.

Use in allergic dermatitis:

The dose is usually 2-3 mg (0.2-0.3 ml) depending on the size of the
problem area of the skin but no more than 5 mg (0.5 ml) should be
injected at any one site. If several sites are injected the total dose
given should not exceed 30 mg (3 ml). Further doses may be given if
necessary at one or two week intervals.

Children: Adcortyl IA/ID is not recommended for children under 6 years
of age. It may be given to older children but the dose is adjusted
according to their size and weight and is always kept as low as possible
for the shortest possible time.

During times of illness or stress, patients on long-term treatment may
require the addition of oral steroid tablets or, if they have recently
finished a course of Adcortyl IA/ID injections, may need to start taking
oral steroid tablets for a while.

Q. How long should I continue receiving Adcortyl IA/ID injection?

A. Your doctor will advise you whether it is wise for you to have
further injections. Treatment with steroids is usually kept as short as
possible and must not be stopped abruptly. Joints may become permanently
damaged by repeated injections over a long period of time.

When the treatment is stopped you may notice flu-like symptoms, runny
nose or itchy eyes or skin.

UNDESIRABLE EFFECTS

Q. Are there any unwanted effects of Adcortyl IA/ID injection?

A. All medicines may cause some unwanted or "side" effects. Some which
can occur with steroid treatment are as follows. Tell your doctor
immediately if you get ulcer pains in your stomach or severe pain in
your abdomen. Patients have reported increased appetite, weight gain,
indigestion, sickness, feeling tired or weak. Steroid treatment may
cause increased risk of infection, thinning of bones or tendons causing
fractures or torn muscles, water retention, irregular heart beat, high
blood pressure or blood clots. Skin disorders or eye problems, including
glaucoma and cataracts, may occur and wounds or broken bones may be slow
to heal . Treatment with steroids can stop the body from producing some
hormones and may slow or stop children's growth rate If you are female.
your periods may become irregular. Elevation or depression of mood.
sleeplessness and severe headaches have been reported.

In particular, when Adcortyl IA/ID is injected into a joint you may
notice some indentation appearing after a while in the surrounding area.
Similarly, injections given under the skin may cause slight changes in
skin colour around the site of injection. These changes should disappear
in time.

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any other troublesome side
effects.

LOOKING AFTER YOUR MEDICINE

Adcortyl IA ID injection will be kept in the pharmacy until it is given
to you by your doctor or nurse. It should be kept at room temperature
(below 25°C) and not allowed to freeze. It should not be used after the
expiry date shown on the outer packaging.

DATE OF LAST REVISION

August 1995 C80002GB 68005D 12/95
