Unknown

ADENOCOR^(®)

Adenosine

Presentation

Adenocor is a sterile solution for intravenous injection provided in
clear glass vials. Each vial contains 6 mg of adenosine in 2 ml of a
0.9% w/v solution of sodium chloride in sterile Water For Injections Ph.
Eur.

Uses

Therapeutic Indications

Rapid conversion to a normal sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular
tachycardias, including those associated with accessory by‑pass tracts
(Wolff‑Parkinson‑White syndrome).

Diagnostic Indications

Aid to diagnosis of broad or narrow complex supraventricular
tachycardias. Although Adenocor is not effective in converting atrial
flutter, atrial fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm,
the slowing of AV conduction helps diagnosis of atrial activity.

Sensitisation of intra‑cavitary electrophysiological investigations.

Mode of Action

Adenocor administered by rapid intravenous injection slows conduction
through the AV node. This action can interrupt re‑entry circuits
involving the AV node and restore normal sinus rhythm in patients with
paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias. Once the circuit has been
interrupted, the tachycardia stops and normal sinus rhythm is
re‑established.

By transiently stowing AV conduction, atrial activity is easier to
evaluate from ECG recordings and therefore Adenocor can aid the
diagnosis of broad or narrow complex tachycardias.

Adenocor may be useful during electrophysiological studies to determine
the site of AV block or to determine, in some cases of pre‑excitation,
whether conduction is occurring by an accessory pathway or via the AV
node.

Dosage and Administration

Adenocor is intended for hospital use only. It should be administered by
rapid IV bogus injection according to the ascending dosage schedule
below. To be certain the solution reaches the systemic circulation
administer either directly into a vein or into an IV line. If given into
an IV line it should be injected as proximally as possible, and followed
by a rapid saline flush.

Adenocor should only be used when facilities exist for cardiac
monitoring. Patients who develop high‑level AV block at a particular
dose should not be given further dosage increments.

Therapeutic Dose

Adults:

Initial dose: 3 mg given as a rapid intravenous bogus Lover 2 seconds}.

Second dose: If the first dose does not result in elimination of the
supraventricular tachycardia within 1 to 2 minutes, 6 mg should be given
also as a rapid intravenous bogus.

Third Dose: If the second dose does not result in elimination of the
supraventricular tachycardia within 1 to 2 minutes, 12mg should be given
also as a rapid intravenous bogus.

Additional or higher doses are not recommended.

Children:

No controlled paediatric study has been undertaken. Published
uncontrolled studies show similar effects of adenosine in adults and
children; effective doses for children were between 0.0375 and 0.25
mg/kg.

Elderly:

See dosage recommendations for adults.

Diagnostic Dose The above ascending dosage schedule should be employed
until sufficient diagnostic information has been obtained.

Contraindications, Warnings etc.

Contra‑indications

Adenocor is contra‑indicated in patients suffering from:

­ second or third degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning
artificial pacemaker).

­ sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with a functioning artificial
pacemaker).

continued

Warnings:

Patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter and an accessory by‑pass tract
may develop increased conduction down the anomalous pathway.

Since neither the kidney nor the liver are involved in the degradation
of exogenous adenosine, the efficacy of Adenocor should be unaffected by
hepatic or renal insufficiency.

It has been reported that inhaled adenosine caused bronchial
constriction in asthmatic patients but not in healthy individuals.
However a limited number of asthmatic patients have received adenosine
intravenously without suffering aggravation of symptoms. Nevertheless
physicians should be aware of the possibility.

Side Effects:

Facial flush, dyspnoea, a feeling of thoracic constriction, nausea and
lightheadedness occur commonly. More rarely observed side‑effects have
been: feeling of discomfort; sweating; palpitations; hyperventilation;
head pressure; apprehension; blurred vision; burning sensation;
bradycardia; chest pains; headache; dizziness; heaviness in arms; arm,
back and neck pains; metallic taste. These side effects were mild, of
short duration (usually less than 1 minute) and generally well‑tolerated
by the patient.

Severe bradycardia has been reported and some patients have required
temporary pacing. The effects of Adenocor are not blocked by atropine.

At the time of conversion to normal sinus rhythm, the ECG may show
premature ventricular contractions, premature atrial contractions, sinus
bradycardia, sinus tachycardia, skipped beats and varying degrees of AV
nodal block. These abnormalities generally last only a few seconds and
have been self limiting.

Drug Interactions:

As dipyridamole is a known inhibitor of adenosine uptake, it may
potentiate the action of Adenocor; in one study dipyridamole was shown
to produce a 4 fold increase in adenosine actions. It is therefore
suggested that Adenocor should not be administered to patients receiving
dipyridamole; if use of Adenocor is essential, dosage should be reduced.

Theophylline and other xanthines such as caffeine are known strong
inhibitors of adenosine.

Adenocor may interact with drugs tending to impair cardiac conduction.

Women of Child‑Bearing Age:

Adenosine is a substance which is naturally present in some form in all
cells of the body, therefore no effect on the foetus would be expected.
In the absence of evidence that adenosine does not cause foetal harm,
Adenocor should only be used during pregnancy where absolutely
necessary.

Overdosage:

No cases of overdosage have been reported. As the half life of adenosine
in blood is very short, the duration of any side effects due to overdose
is likely to be limited.

Pharmaceutical Precautions

Do not refrigerate. Any portion of the vial not used at once should be
discarded.

Legal Category

POM

Package Quantities

Carton of 6 vials

Product Licence Number

PL 1 1723/0005

Name and Address

Sanofi Winthrop Limited

One Onslow Street,

Guildford,

Surrey GU1 4YS

Date of Preparation

April 1992
