Unknown

How many tablets, how often and how should I take Adipine² MR 10?

· You should take the number of tablets prescribed by your doctor.
Unless otherwise specified, the usual dose is one tablet twice daily.
Your doctor may change the dose according to your response to the
treatment.

· You should swallow the tablet(s) whole with some liquid after food. Do
not bite, chew or break up the tablet(s).

· You should not take the next dose less than 4 hours after the first
dose.

For how long do I need to take Adipine² MR 10?

High blood pressure and angina pectoris require long term treatment.
Your doctor will monitor your progress and determine the duration of
your treatment. If you wish to stop Adipine² MR 10 temporarily or
permanently, your should consult your doctor.

Discontinuation of Adipine² MR 10 should be gradual, especially if you
have been taking high doses.

What should I do if I miss a dose?

If you miss a dose and it is more than 4 hours before the next dose,
then take your usual treatment. If it is less than 4 hours, then you
should wait till your next usual dosing time before taking the
medication. You should never take a double dose to make up for the
missed dose.

What undesirable effects may occur with the treatment?

At the start of treatment, worsening of angina pectoris may occur.
Patients may experience headache, flushing or reddening of the skin
associated with a feeling of warmth.

There have been reports of palpitations, fatigue, dizziness, swollen
ankles due to fluid retention, tingling sensation in the arms or legs,
muscle pain, finger tremors and minor transient visual disturbances.
Rarely there have been reports of diarrhoea, nausea and a feeling of
fullness.

Allergic skin reactions have been reported e.g. itching, hives and
rashes, and rarely inflammation and peeling of the skin.

Rare reports have been made of abnormalities affecting the blood cells
(reduced red and white cells and platelet counts) and of spontaneous
bleeding Swelling of the breasts have also been reported, especially in
elderly men, and impairment of liver function and swelling of the gums
have also known to occur; all of these have resolved on stopping
treatment

Patients who are on kidney dialysis and have a very high blood pressure
and a low blood volume may have a marked drop in their blood pressure.
In those who have kidney impairment, their kidney function may
deteriorate transiently.

Should you experience any effects not described above, please let your
doctor know immediately.

What should I do if an overdose has been taken?

In case of an overdose, medical advice should be sought immediately.

How should I store Adipine² MR 10

The tablets should be kept in the original container in a cool, dry
place below 25°C.

The expiry date of the medicine is printed on the package. Do not use
this product after this expiry date.

Keep out of reach of children.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --
  This medicine has been prescribed only for you. Do not give it to anyone else under any circumstances.   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --

Date of preparation or last revision: October 1995

²Trade Mark applied for
