Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet on

‘Algitec' Chewtab

(cimetidine/alginic acid) Tablets

This leaflet tells you about 'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets. Please read it
before taking your tablets.

If there is anything you do not understand, or if you want to know more
about your tablets, ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Please keep this leaflet. You may want to read it again.

What is in Algitec' Chewtab Tablets?

'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets contain the active ingredients cimetidine and
alginic acid. Each tablet of 'Algitec' Chewtab contains 200 milligrammes
(mg) of cimetidine and 500 mg of alginic acid (E400).

Your tablets also contain inactive ingredients. These are sodium
bicarbonate (E500), Eudragit, sorbitol (E420), pregelatinised starch,
croscarmellose sodium type A, lactose, aspartame, sodium saccharin,
magnesium stearate (E572) and aniseed, butterscotch and peppermint
flavours.

'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets contain 47 mg of sodium in each tablet.

Each pack contains 120 tablets in six tubes of 20.

Who makes Algitec?

The Product Licence/Authorisation Holder is Smith Kline & French
Laboratories Ltd., trading as SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Welwyn
Garden City, Hertfordshire, England AL7 1EY.

'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets are manufactured by Smith Kline & French
Laboratories Ltd., Manor Royal, Crawley.

What is 'Algitec' and how does it work?

'Algitec' is an antacid. If the acid from your stomach comes up into
your gullet (reflux) it can cause pain and inflammation. 'Algitec' can
help to treat this in two ways. In your stomach, the alginate (alginic
acid) makes a frothy layer or raft which floats on the stomach contents
and helps to prevent them coming up into your gullet. The cimetidine
(which is a histamine H2 receptor antagonist) helps to reduce the amount
of acid being produced in your stomach, so even it the contents get
through the alginate ran, there is much less acid to cause any damage.

What are 'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets used for?

'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets are used for the treatment of heartburn and
acid reflux.

Before taking your medicine

If you answer YES to any of the following questions DO NOT take this
medicine. Go back to your doctor and ask what to do. You may need to be
given another medicine or the dose may need to be changed.

· Are you allergic to 'Algitec' (cimetidine or alginic acid)?

· Do you have kidney problem?

· Do you have a blood disease?

· Are you pregnant or do you think you may be?

· Are you breast feeding?

You should also tell your doctor before taking 'Algitec', if you are
taking any of the following medicines:

· Medicines which thin the blood (anticoagulants, e.g. warfarin)

· Medicines to prevent fits (anticonvulsants, e.g. phenytoin)

· Theophylline tablets to help your breathing

· Lignocaine

Taking your medicine

How should you take your tablets?

Chew your tablets well before swallowing. Have a drink of water after
the tablet if you need one. 'Algitec' is not suitable for children.

How much should you take and how often?

The usual dosage of 'Algitec' Chewtab Tablets is one tablet taken four
times a day. Take the first tablet after breakfast, another one after
your midday meal, the third tablet after your evening meal (or tea) and
the fourth at bedtime.

50045G B2

Your doctor may increase the dose to two tablets four times a day if you
do not start to feel better after taking the usual dose.

Doctors sometimes prescribe different doses to those given in this
leaflet, if this applies to you, discuss it with your doctor if you have
not already done so

The pharmacist's label on your pack will tell you how much your doctor
would like you to take. Please read the label carefully.

Do not take more than your doctor has recommended.

How long should you carry on taking ‘Algitec'?

Keep taking your tablets until the prescribed course is finished. You
may start to feel better after a few days, but do not stop taking the
tablets. If you stop too soon your symptoms may come back.

You will usually be given enough tablets to last you for between four
and eight weeks.

What if you miss a dose?

If you forget to take your tablet, miss out that dose completely. Take
your next tablet at the normal time.

What if you have taken too much?

You should only take the dose that your doctor or pharmacist has told
you. II you take too many tablets tell your doctor or hospital casualty
department straight away. Take your tablet pack with you.

After taking your medicine

What unwanted effects might your tablets cause?

Side effects with your medicine are usually mild and do not last long.
The most common unwanted effects are diarrhoea, dizziness, rash and
tiredness.

Other more rare side effects are confusion, breast enlargement in men,
blood changes, kidney disorders, liver disorders, inflammation of the
pancreas, fever, headache, aching muscles, aching joints, heart effects
and impotence. All these unwanted effects should disappear when
treatment is stopped.

Very rarely allergic reactions (such as rash, itching, shortness of
breath and low blood pressure) and hair loss have occurred

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of these effects or any
other unwanted effects not mentioned above.

Storing your tablets

Your tablets will have an expiry date on the pack. You should not use
your tablets after this date.

Keep the tablets in their original pack, at room temperature (below
30°C).

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them even if
their symptoms seem the same as yours.

Keep all medicines out of the reach of children - preferably in a locked
cupboard or medicine cabinet.

SELF HELP

What else can be done to reduce symptoms? IN ADDITION to the prescribed
course of 'Algitec', a number of practical measures can help.

1. Reduce weight - If you are overweight, this can “squeeze” the
stomach. A sensible weight-reducing diet will help to ease this pressure
on the stomach and reduce reflux.

2. Meals - Don't rush your food or eat in a 'hunched-up” position. Eat
regular, sensible meals. Try to avoid eating or drinking late at night
or before you go to bed.

3. Smoking - As well as the well-known dangers of smoking, it has been
shown that smoking stops the valve-like muscle at the bottom of the
gullet from working properly. Stopping smoking, or greatly cutting down,
will help your reflux.

4. Sleeping - When you are Iying down it is easier for the stomach
contents to “leak” into the oesophagus (gullet) causing heartburn.
Raising the head of your bed on wooden blocks or bricks can help a great
deal .

5. Activity - Try to avoid bending or stooping, whenever possible. Try
to kneel instead and keep your back straight. Wear loose-fitting clothes
if you can.

+---+-----------------------------------------------------------+
|   | Leaflet prepared May 1995                                 |
|   |                                                           |
|   | Pharmaceuticals 'Algitec' and the SB logo are trade marks |
|   |                                                           |
|   | © 1995 SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals                 |
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------+

50045GB2
