Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet on

'Algitec' (cimetidine/sodium

alginate) Suspension

This leaflet tells you about your medicine. Please read it before taking
your medicine. Please keep this leaflet, you may want to read it again.

If there is anything you do not understand or you want to know more
about your medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

What is in ‘Algitec’ Suspension ?

'Algitec' Suspension contains the active ingredients cimetidine and
Sodium Alginate BPC. Each 10 ml of 'Algitec' Suspension contains 200 mg
cimetidine and 500 mg Sodium Alginate BPC.

Your medicine also contains inactive ingredients. These are potassium
bicarbonate, microcrystalline cellulose (E460), carboxymethylcellulose
sodium (E466), propylene glycol, butyl and propyl parabens, disodium
edetate, sorbitol (E420), sodium acid phosphate, sodium phosphate,
sodium saccharin, titanium dioxide (E171), passion fruit and peppermint
flavours.

The sodium content of 'Algitec' Suspension is 66 mg/10 ml.

Your medicine is available in bottles of 600 ml.

Who makes ‘Algitec’?

The Product Licence/Authorisation Holder is Smith Kline & French
Laboratories Ltd., trading as SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Welwyn
Garden City, Hertfordshire, England AL7 1EY.

'Algitec' Suspension is manufactured by Smith Kline & French
Laboratories, Manor Royal, Crawley.

What is ‘Algitec' and how does it work?

'Algitec' is an antacid. If the acid from your stomach comes up into
your gullet (reflux) it can cause pain and inflammation. 'Algitec' can
help to treat this in two ways. In your stomach, Fe alginate (alginic
acid) makes a frothy layer or raft which floats on the stomach contents
and helps to prevent them coming up into your gullet. Cimetidine (which
u a histamine H2 receptor antagonist) helps to reduce the amount of acid
being produced in your stomach, so even if the contents get through the
alginate rat, there is much less acid to cause any damage.

What is Algitec' Suspension used for?

'Algitec' Suspension is used for the treatment of heartburn and acid
reflux.

Before taking your medicine

If you answer YES to any of the following questions, DO NOT take this
medicine until you have talked to your doctor. You may need to be given
another medicine or the dose may need to be changed.

· Are you allergic to 'Algitec' (cimetidine or sodium alginate)?

· Do you have a kidney problem?

· Do you have a blood disease?

· Are you pregnant, or do you think you may be?

· Are you breast feeding?

You should also tell your doctor before taking 'Algitec', if you are
taking the following medicines

· Medicines which thin the blood (anticoagulants, e.g. wafarin)

· Medicines to prevent fits (anticonvulsants, e.g. phenytoin

· Theophylline tablets to help your breathing

· Lignocaine

Taking your medicine

How should you take your medicine?

Your medicine should be taken using the plastic measuring cup, supplied
with the bottle, or with a 5 ml spoon (provided by your pharmacist).
Shake the bottle before use.

'Algitec' is not suitable for children.

How much should you take and how often?

The usual dosage is 10 ml 'Algitec' Suspension taken four times a day -
one dose after breakfast, one dose after your midday meal, one dose
after your evening meal (or tea) and one dose at bedtime.

Your doctor may increase the dose to 20 ml to be taken lour times a day
if you do not start to feel better after taking the usual dose.

50044GB2

continued

Doctors sometimes prescribe different doses to those given in this
leaflet, if this applies to you, discuss it with your doctor if you have
not already done so.

The pharmacist's label on your pack will tell you how much your doctor
would like you to take. Please read the label carefully.

Do not take more than the dose your doctor has recommended.

How long should you carry on taking ‘Algitec'?

Keep taking the suspension until the prescribed course is finished. You
may start to feel better after a few days, but do not stop taking the
suspension. it you stop too soon your symptoms may come back.

What if you miss a dose?

Leave out that dose completely. Take your next dose of 'Algitec' at the
normal time it is due.

What if you have taken too much?

You should take the dose that your doctor or pharmacist has told you. If
you take too much tell your doctor or local hospital casualty department
at once. Take the suspension bottle with you.

AFTER TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

'What unwanted effects might your medicine cause?

Side effects with your medicine are usually mild and do not last long.
The most common unwanted effects are diarrhoea, dizziness, rash and
tiredness.

Other more rare side effects are confusion, breast enlargement in men,
blood changes, kidney disorders, liver disorders, inflammation of the
pancreas, fever, headache, aching muscles, aching joints, heart effects
and impotence. All these side effects should disappear when treatment is
stopped.

Very rarely allergic reactions (rash, itching, shortness of breath and
low blood pressure) and hair loss have occurred.

Tell your doctor if you notice any of these effects or any other
unwanted effects not mentioned above.

Storing your medicine

Your .will have an expiry date on the pack. You should not use your
medicine after this date.

Keep 'Algitec' in its original pack. Store below 25°C (77°F), but do not
refrigerate.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them, even it
their symptoms seem the same as yours.

KEEP ALL MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN—preferably in s locked
cupboard or medicine cabinet.

SELF HELP

What else can be done to reduce symptoms? IN ADDITION to the prescribed
course of ‘Algitec', a number of practical measures can help.

1. Reduce weight - If you are overweight, this can "squeeze" the
stomach. A sensible weight-reducing diet will help to ease this pressure
on the stomach and reduce reflux.

2. Meals - Don't rush your food or eat in a “hunched-up" position. Eat
regular, sensible meals. Try to avoid eating or drinking late at night
or before you go to bed.

3. Smoking - As well as the well-known dangers of smoking, it has been
shown that smoking stops the valve-like muscle at the bottom of the
gullet from working properly. Stopping smoking, or greatly cutting down,
will help your reflux.

4. Sleeping -When you are Iying down it is easier for the stomach
contents to leak" into the oesophagus (gullet) causing heartburn.
Raising the head of your best on wooden blocks or bricks can help a
great deal.

5. Activity - Try to avoid bending over or stooping, whenever possible.
Try to kneel instead and keep your back straight. Wear loose-fitting
clothes if you can.

+---+-------------------------------------------+
|   | ‘Algitec' and the SB logo are trade marks |
|   |                                           |
|   | © 1995 SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals |
|   |                                           |
|   | Leaflet prepared May 1995                 |
|   |                                           |
|   | 50044GB2                                  |
+---+-------------------------------------------+
