Unknown

+---+-----------------------------+
|   | Patient Information Leaflet |
|   |                             |
|   | on Amoxil syrup             |
+---+-----------------------------+

Amoxil syrup is prescribed mainly for children, but may also be
prescribed for adults. This leaflet is written with child patients and
their parents in mind; but the information enclosed is just as important
if you are taking the medicine yourself, as an adult, or are helping
another adult to take it.

Please read this leaflet before this medicine is started. It is
essential to follow your doctor’s advice. If there is anything you do
not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Keep this leaflet until all the prescribed course of Amoxil has been
finished. You may want to read it again.

The name of this medicine is

AMOXIL

What is Amoxil?

It is one of a group of antibiotic medicines called penicillins. The
active ingredient in Amoxil is amoxycillin.

What does Amoxil do?

It is used to treat a range of bacterial infections.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT AMOXIL

1. This medicine is unsuitable for people who are allergic to
penicillin. (You will find more information about this later in the
leaflet.)

2. Give Amoxil to your child as directed by your doctor. Read the
dispensing label .

3. Keep giving your child Amoxil until the prescribed course is
finished. Do not stop just because your child seems better.

4. Like all medicines, Amoxil can sometimes cause unwanted effects. (You
will find more information about this later in the leaflet.)

5. ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.

6. WOMEN: Before taking ANY medicines, you should tell our doctor if you
are pregnant (or think you may be) or if you are breast feeding.

Now turn over for details on how to give this medicine to your child.

BEFORE GIVING YOUR CHILD THIS MEDICINE

Is my child allergic to penicillin?

If you think your child may be allergic to penicillin, check with your
doctor before giving this medicine.

GIVING YOUR CHILD THIS MEDICINE

How much should I give my child and how often?

Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to give your child
Amoxil. Please read the dispensing label carefully. Your pharmacist or
doctor can help if you are not sure.

Amoxil syrup should be given using the 5 ml spoon provided by the
pharmacist. It is best for your child to take the medicine direct from
the spoon. However, if necessary, the dose may be stirred into a few
spoonfuls of cold water or infant drink (not milk). Make sure the whole
dose is swallowed each time.

Space the doses as evenly as possible through the day. For example, if
you have been told to give your child Amoxil 3 times a day:

  ----------- ----------- ------------
  Dose 1      Dose 2      Dose 3
                          
  about 7am   about 3pm   about 11pm
  ----------- ----------- ------------

You may give Amoxil to your child before, with or after food, unless the
label advises a specific time. It is not normally necessary to arrange
to give your child a dose in the middle of the night – unless your
doctor has told you to do so.

How long should I carry on giving it to my child?

Keep giving your child Amoxil until the prescribed course is finished.
Do not stop just because your child seems better. If you stop too soon,
the infection may start up again.

If your child still seems unwell at the end of the prescribed course of
treatment, tell your doctor.

What should I do if I forget to give my child a dose?

If you forget to give your child a dose at the right time, take it as
soon as you remember. Then carry on as before, but do not take two doses
within an hour or so of each other.

AFTER GIVING YOUR CHILD THIS MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might it have?

A few people may find that Amoxil gives them diarrhoea or indigestion.
If this happens, these symptoms are usually mild. If your child suffers
badly, tell your doctor.

Tell your doctor if your child develops rashes, or itching, or any other
unusual problems, while they are taking this medicine.

If your doctor decides to stop the treatment, pour any left-over
medicine down the sink.

What if I have given my child too much?

If a large amount has been taken, give your child plenty of water to
drink and consult your doctor or local hospital casualty department at
once.

STORING THIS MEDICINE

How should I store Amoxil syrup?

Keep it in a dry place. Store all medicines out of the reach of children
– preferably in a locked cupboard or medicine cabinet.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for your child. Never
offer your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them
even if their symptoms seem the same as your child’s.

MORE INFORMATION

Amoxil syrup is available in two strengths containing either 125 mg or
250 mg of amoxycillin as amoxycillin trihydrate per 5 ml.

Non-proprietary name: Amoxycillin Syrup.

Amoxil syrup also contain inactive ingredients to make the medicine
acceptable. Amongst these are sodium benzoate and sorbitol,

Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder and Manufacturer:

Beecham Group plc trading as Bencard, Great West Road,

Brentford, TW8 9BD, England.

How can I obtain more information about Amoxil?

In this short leaflet, we can only give you the most important patient
information about Amoxil. If you would like to know more, ask your
doctor or pharmacist.

Amoxil and the Bencard logo are trade marks.

Leaflet prepared in October 1989.
