Unknown

+---+-----------------------------+
|   | Patient Information Leaflet |
|   |                             |
|   | on Amoxil capsules          |
+---+-----------------------------+

Please read this leaflet before you start to take your medicine.

It is essential to follow the advice of your doctor (or dentist). If
there is anything you do not understand, please ask your doctor or
pharmacist (chemist). Keep this leaflet until you have finished all your
prescribed course of Amoxil. You may want to read it again.

If you are helping someone else to take this medicine, please read this
leaflet before you give the first dose.

The name of your medicine is AMOXIL

What is Amoxil?

It is one of a group of antibiotic medicines called penicillins. The
active ingredient in Amoxil is amoxycillin.

What does Amoxil do?

It is used to treat a range of bacterial infections.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT AMOXIL

1. This medicine is unsuitable for people who are allergic to
penicillin. (You will find more information about this later in the
leaflet.)

2. Before taking ANY medicines, you should tell your doctor if you are
pregnant (or think you may be), or if you are breast feeding.

3. Take Amoxil as directed by your doctor. Read the dispensing label .

4. Keep taking your Amoxil until your prescribed course is finished. Do
not stop just because you feel better.

5. Like all medicines, Amoxil can sometimes cause unwanted effects. (You
will find more information about this later in the leaflet.)

6. ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.

For more information about Amoxil, please read the rest of this leaflet.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

Am I allergic to penicillin?

Do you think or have you been told that you are allergic to penicillin?
If so, do not take Amoxil; tell your doctor. You may be given another
medicine instead.

TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

How much should I take and how often?

Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to take your
medicine. Please read the dispensing label carefully. Your pharmacist or
doctor can help if you are not sure. Amoxil capsules should be swallowed
with water.

Space the doses as evenly as possible through the day. For example, if
you have been told to take your Amoxil 3 times a day:

  ----------- ----------- ------------
  Dose 1      Dose 2      Dose 3
                          
  about 7am   about 3pm   about 11pm
  ----------- ----------- ------------

You may take Amoxil before, with or after food, unless the label advises
a specific time. It is not normally necessary to arrange to take a dose
in the middle of the night – unless your doctor has told you to do so.

How long should I carry on taking it?

Keep taking your Amoxil until your prescribed course is finished. Do not
stop just because you feel better. If you stop too soon, the infection
may start up again.

If you still feel unwell at the end of your prescribed course of
treatment, tell your doctor.

What should I do if I forget to take a dose?

If you forget to take a dose at the right time, take it as soon as you
remember. Then go on as before, but do not take two doses within an hour
or so of each other.

AFTER TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might it have?

A few people may find that Amoxil gives them diarrhoea or indigestion.
If this happens, these symptoms are usually mild. If you suffer badly,
tell your doctor.

Tell your doctor if you develop rashes, or itching, or any other unusual
problems, while you are taking this medicine.

If your doctor decides to stop the treatment, return any left-over
medicine to the pharmacist.

What if I have taken too much?

If a large amount has been taken, drink plenty of water and consult your
doctor or local hospital casualty department at once.

STORING YOUR MEDICINE

How should I store Amoxil capsules?

Keep them in a dry place. Store all medicines out of the reach of
children – preferably in a locked cupboard or medicine cabinet.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them even if
their symptoms seem the same as yours.

MORE INFORMATION

Amoxil capsules are available in two strengths containing either 250 mg
or 500 mg of amoxycillin as amoxycillin trihydrate.

Non-proprietary name: Amoxycillin Capsules.

Amoxil capsules do not contain tartrazine or any other azo dyes.

Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder: Beecham Group plc trading as
Bencard, Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BD, England.

How can I obtain more information about Amoxil?

In this short leaflet, we can only give you the most important patient
information about Amoxil. If you would like to know more, ask your
doctor or pharmacist.

Amoxil and the Bencard logo are trade marks.

Leaflet prepared in August 1988.
