Unknown

+----------------+-----------------------------+---+
| TPIO69340010/1 | PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET |   |
|                |                             |   |
|                | ANGITIL² SR                 |   |
|                |                             |   |
|                | 90, 120 AND 180 CAPSULES    |   |
|                |                             |   |
|                | (DILTIAZEM HYDROCHLORIDE)   |   |
+----------------+-----------------------------+---+

Please read this leaflet carefully before you start taking your
medicine. It tells you the

important points you should know about ANGITIL SR Capsules.

WHAT’S IN YOUR MEDICINE

These capsules contain either 90 mg, 120 mg or 180 mg of Diltiazem
Hydrochloride USP, the

active ingredient, in a special 'slow release' form.

The capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients: sucrose,
maize starch, povidone, ethyl cellulose, talc, dibutyl sebacate, cetyl
alcohol, sodium lauryl sulphate, gelatin and the colourings E171 and
E172.

The 120 mg capsules also contain the colouring E 132.

ANGITIL SR Capsules are the following colours and have the following
codes:

ANGITIL SR 90 Capsules: white/clear printed with the code “90 MG”

ANGITIL SR 120 Capsules: brown/clear printed with the code "120 MG"

ANGITIL SR 180 Capsules: pale brown/clear printed with the code "180 MG"
ANGITIL SR 90, 120 and 180 Capsules are available in blister packs of
56.

Name of Product Licence Holder: Laboratoires Ethypharm, 21 Rue Saint
Matthieu, 78550 Houdan, France.

Name of Manufacturer: Laboratoires Ethypharm, 21 Rue Saint Matthieu,
78550 Houdan, France.

ABOUT YOUR MEDICINE

Diltiazem belongs to a group of medicines called calcium-channel
blockers. It is used for treating high blood pressure and the chest pain
called angina.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

· Are you pregnant or may become pregnant, or are you breast-feeding?

· Have you taken ANGITIL SR Capsules before or any medicines containing
diltiazem or other calcium-channel blockers (e.g nifedipine, verapamil)
before and had an allergic reaction (rash, itching, shortness of
breath)?

· Do you suffer from heart disease (e.g heart failure, a slow heart
rate) or have you recently had a heart attack?

· Are you taking '‘Beta-blocker' medication (for high blood pressure,
angina, palpitations or nervousness) AND you have been told that you
suffer from an interference with normal heartbeat?

If the answer to any of these questions is YES, DO NOT TAKE the capsules
without consulting your doctor again.

· Do you suffer from muscles which are rigid or go into spasm and you
perhaps take a medicine called dantrolene for the condition?

If the answer to this question is YES then if you go into hospital for
severe spasm of your muscles you must tell the doctor that you are
taking diltiazem. If dantrolene is given by injection it can seriously
interfere with diltiazem.

· Are you taking anti-arrhythmic medicines such as digoxin (for the
treatment of palpitations or irregular heart beat), carbamazepine (for
epilepsy), cyclosporin (for the treatment of psoriasis or to prevent
rejection of an organ following a transplant), theophylline (for asthma
or other breathing difficulties) or anti-ulcer drugs (for the treatment
of stomach ulcers)?

· Are you taking other anti-hypertensive medicines (for the treatment of
high blood pressure) such as '‘Beta-blockers' (e.g propranolol) or
'Alpha-blockers' (e.g prazosin)? Prazosin and other 'Alpha-blockers' are
also used to treat a condition where the toes and fingers become very
cold (Raynaud's disease).

It is best to let your doctor know if you are taking any other
medicines, including ones you have bought yourself without a
prescription.

· Do you have kidney or liver disease?

· Do you suffer from porphyria?

If the answer to any of these questions is YES, tell your doctor or
pharmacist.

If you have an operation, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking
ANGITIL SR Capsules and the dose that you are taking

If you have any blood, urine or other tests - tell the doctor or medical
staff that you are taking diltiazem because the medicine can interfere
with the result.

continued

If your doctor prescribes you to take ANGITIL SR Capsules together with
another antihypertensive medicine (e.g a 'Beta-blocker', a water tablet,
an ACE-inhibitor, an 'Alphablocker') it is likely that your condition
will be monitored regularly.

HOW TO TAKE YOUR MEDICINE

Make sure you take the capsules exactly as directed by your doctor.

The usual dose of ANGITIL SR Capsules for the treatment of angina or
high blood pressure is 90 mg to be taken twice a day. Over a period of
time, your doctor may increase your dose to 120 mg twice a day, or 180
mg to be taken twice a day.

If you are elderly or you suffer from liver or kidney disease your
doctor is likely to prescribe you a low dose of diltiazem. You may
previously have been prescribed diltiazem 60 mg tablets. Your doctor may
very gradually increase your dose and is likely to check your condition
regularly to start with.

BE SURE TO PAY CAREFUL ATTENTION TO YOUR DOCTOR'S ADVICE ON WHICH
STRENGTH, AND HOW MANY, CAPSULES YOU NEED TO TAKE.

Exactly how many capsules, which strength, and how often you must take
them, will be written on the label. Please read the label carefully.

Swallow the capsules whole with a drink of water. Do not chew them.

You should finish all the capsules your doctor has prescribed. Even if
you feel better, you should still take all the capsules you have been
given - it may be dangerous to stop taking the medicine without your
doctor's advice.

If you forget to take a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you
remember, unless it is nearly time to take the next one. Never take two
doses together. Take the remaining capsules at the correct times.

If you see another doctor or go into hospital, tell them what medicines
you are taking

WHAT TO DO IF AN OVERDOSE IS TAKEN

If you (or someone else) swallows a lot of the capsules all together, or
if you think a child has swallowed any of the capsules, contact your
nearest hospital casualty department or doctor immediately.

AFTER TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

If you develop wheezing or shortness of breath or severe skin rashes or
itching after taking ANGITIL SR Capsules for the first time, STOP taking
the capsules and tell your doctor immediately.

Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you develop a change in your
normal heartbeat (eg slowing of heart rate, which may cause you to
become dizzy, feel faint or actually faint). More common side-effects
which some people get include swelling of the legs and ankles headaches,
stomach upsets, feeling of sickness, tiredness, flushing and milder skin
rashes. Tell your doctor if you suffer badly from any of these
side-effects.

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any other unwanted effects
not mentioned above.

STORING YOUR MEDICINE

Do not take any capsules after the expiry date printed on the container.
If you have any medicines which are out of date, return them to your
pharmacist for disposal.

Keep your capsules in a safe place where children cannot reach them.

These capsules should be stored in a dry place. Keep them in the pack
they came in. DO not transfer them to another container.

DO not keep any capsules you no longer need; give them back to your
pharmacist for disposal.

FURTHER INFORMATION

Remember, this medicine is only for you. Only a doctor can prescribe it
for you. Never give it to anyone else, even if it sounds as though they
have the same problem as you. It may harm them . This leaflet provides
only a summary of the information known about ANGITIL SR Capsules. If
you have any questions, want to know more about this medicine, or are
unsure about anything, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

This information applies only to ANGITIL SR 90, 120 and 180 Capsules.

Date of Preparation: June 1995

+---------------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| Trinity Pharmaceuticals Ltd,                                        |   |
|                                                                     |   |
| Tuition House, 27/37, St. George's Road, Wimbledon, London SW19 4EU |   |
|                                                                     |   |
| ²Trade Mark applied for.                                            |   |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+---+
