Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet

on ‘Asacol’ Tablets

This leaflet tells you about 'Asacol' Tablets. Please read it before
taking these tablets. If there is anything you do not understand, or ii
you want to know more about your tablets, ask your doctor or pharmacist
(chemist).

Please keep this leaflet. You may want to read it again.

What is in 'Asacol' Tablets?

Your tablets contain the active ingredient mesalazine (also known as
5-aminosalicylic acid). 'Asacol' Tablets are available in one strength
of 400 milligrammes (mg). They are covered with a coating called
Eudragit S (also known as methacrylic acid copolymer) which allows the
tablets to pass through the stomach without dissolving The tablet
coating will break down in the bowel, where the active mesalazine is
released. The tablets also contain inactive ingredients. These are
lactose, sodium starch glycollate, magnesium stearate (E572), talcum
(E553b), polyvinylpyrolidone, methacrylic acid copolymer,
dibutylphthalate, polyethylene glycol, yellow iron oxide (E172), red
iron oxide (E172). Your tablets contain 0.8 mg sodium. Your tablets are
available in packs of 120.

Who makes 'Asacol' Tablets?

The Product Licence Holder is Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd,
Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY, England.

'Asacol' Tablets are manufactured by SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH,
Germany.

What is 'Asacol'?

'Asacol' contains mesalazine which is an anti-inflammatory drug.

What is 'Asacol' used for?

Ulcerative coFitis is a disease of the large bowel (colon) and back
passage (rectum), in which the lining of the bowel becomes inflamed (red
and swollen). 'Asacol' Tablets act locally in the colon and rectum to
reduce this inflammation. They can also be used to prevent further
episodes of ulcerative colitis.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR TABLETS

If you answer Yes to any of the following questions go back to your
doctor and ask what you should do. You may need to be given another
medicine or the dose may need to be changed.

· Are you allergic to aspirin or other salicylates?

· Have you got any kidney problems?

· Have you had kidney problems whilst taking another medicine such as
sulphasalazine?

· Have you had problems with your blood whilst taking another medicine
such as sulphasalazine?

· Are you pregnant or do you think you may be?

· Are you breast feeding?

· Are you taking a medicine called lactulose for constipation?

TAKING YOUR TABLETS

The usual adult dosage is:

· For the treatment of ulcerative colitis, six tablets each day divided
out throughout the day. For example, two tablets three times a day or
three tablets twice a day.

· To prevent an episode of ulcerative colitis, between three and six
tablets divided out throughout the day. For example, from one tablet
three times a day to two tablets three times a day.

· Do not take more than six tablets per day.

50104GB3

Swallow the tablets whole, do not chew them.

Doctors sometimes prescribe different doses to those given in this
leaflet, if this applies to you, discuss it with your doctor if you have
not already done so.

The pharmacist's label on your pack will tell you how much your doctor
would like you to take. Please read the label carefully

Do not take more than your doctor has recommended.

'Asacol' Tablets are not recommended for children.

How long should you carry on using 'Asacol'?

Keep taking your tablets for as long as the doctor has instructed Always
finish the prescribed course. Your symptoms may come back if you stop
your treatment too early.

What if you have taken too much?

You should only take as many tablets as your doctor or pharmacist has
told you. If you take too many tell your doctor or hospital casualty
department straight away Take your tablet pack with you.

What if you miss a dose?

If you forget to take a dose at the right time, take it as soon as you
remember Then go on as before, but do not take two doses within one hour
or so of each other.

What unwanted effects might your tablets cause?

The most common unwanted effects with mesalazine (e g ‘Asacol') are
nausea (feeling sick), headache, diarrhoea and stomach pain.

Blood disorders. inflammation of the pancreas, liver problems and kidney
problems can also occur rarely as unwanted effects

Tell your doctor if you start to bruise easily or if you get any of the
following symptoms: fever, sore throat, spots under your skin or swollen
ankles

Allergic reactions to mesalazine can occur Tell your doctor if you get a
rash any shortness of breath palpitations (rapid heart beat) or chest
pain These effects will usually disappear when mesalazine is stopped.

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of these effects or any
other unwanted effects not mentioned above.

STORING YOUR TABLETS

Your tablets will have an expiry date on the pack. You should not use
your tablets after this date.

The tablets should be stored at or below room temperature (25°C or 77°F)
and protected from light, preferably in their original pack

Keep all medicines out of the reach of children - preferably in a locked
cupboard or medicine cabinet.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them even if
their symptoms seem the same as yours

Where can I get more advice about ulcerative colitis?

In addition to advice and information available from your doctor and
pharmacist you may wish to contact the National Association for Colitis
and Crohn's Disease which offers information, advice and local support
groups

National Association for Colitis and Crohn's Disease

PO Box 205, St Albans, Hertfordshire AL1 1NX

Smith Kline & French Laboratories

Authorised User of the trade mark ‘Asacol’ in the UK.

Leaflet prepared in October 1995

© 1996 Smith Kline & French Laboratories 50104GB3
