Unknown

Atrovent^(®) Aerocaps^(®)

What you should know about Atrovent^(®) Aerocaps^(®)

Please read this leaflet carefully before you start to take your
medicine. It contains a summary of the information available on your
medicine. The information in this leaflet applies to Atrovent^(®)
Aerocaps^(®) only. If after reading this you have any questions, ask
your doctor or pharmacist.

The name of your medicine is Atrovent Aerocaps.

Each Atrovent Aerocap contains 40 micrograms of the active ingredient
ipratropium bromide. Each Aerocap also contains glucose, as an inactive
ingredient.

Ipratropium bromide belongs to a group of medicines called
bronchodilators. They help you to breathe more easily by opening up your
airways.

The following packs are available:

A pack containing 1 Aerohaler and 100 Atrovent Aerocaps.

A refill pack containing 100 Atrovent Aerocaps.

The Product Licence and Product Authorisation for Atrovent Aerocaps are
held by:

Boehringer Ingelheim Limited,

Ellesfield Avenue,

Bracknell,

Berkshire, RG12 8YS.

and the Aerocaps are manufactured by:

Boehringer Ingelheim KG,

D-55216,

Ingelheim am Rhein,

Germany.

How Atrovent Aerocaps Help You

Atrovent Aerocaps help those who have breathing difficulties to breathe
more easily, for example those with asthma or chronic bronchitis.

Before Taking Your Medicine

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if:

· You are pregnant, likely to become pregnant, or if you are
breastfeeding.

· You are “allergic" or hypersensitive to atropine or ipratropium
bromide.

· You suffer from glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye) or prostate
problems.

If in doubt ask your doctor or pharmacist.

How To Take Your Medicine

Follow your doctor's instructions about when and how to take your
medicine and always read the label. If you are not sure, ask your doctor
or pharmacist.

The Atrovent Aerocaps are designed to be used in the Aerohaler. This
leaflet contains information on the Aerocaps and also separate
instructions on how to use the Aerohaler, so please read those carefully
too.

The usual recommended dose is as follows:

Adults: 1 Aerocap three or four times daily. Your doctor may prescribe a
higher dose if s/he feels that it is necessary for you.

Children under 12: The Aerocaps are not recommended for use in children
under 12 years of age.

Do not use more than your prescribed number of Aerocaps.

Do not swallow the Aerocaps. The Aerohaler pierces the Aerocap so that
you can breathe the powder it contains into your lungs. Make sure that
you have an Aerohaler and that you can use it properly – remember, there
are separate instructions on how to use it and you should read those
too. If you have problems using the Aerohaler, ask your doctor or
pharmacist to show you how it works.

Important: Once the Aerocaps have been removed from the foil blister
they should be used within one day.

After Taking Your Medicine

If you notice your medicine is not working as well as it used to,
consult your doctor immediately.

All medicines can sometimes cause side effects. Atrovent may
occasionally cause dry mouth, difficulty in urinating or constipation.
As with other inhaled medicines, some patients may suffer from wheeze or
cough directly after taking the medicine.

If you experience any of these and they persist or become troublesome,
consult your doctor.

If you experience any other unusual or unexpected symptoms consult your
doctor or pharmacist.

How To Store Your Medicine

The Aerocaps should be stored below 25°C and kept away from heat,
including the sun.

Important: Once the Aerocaps have been removed from the foil blister
they should be used within one day.

Do not take this medicine after the expiry date which you will find
printed on the packaging.

Keep out of the sight and reach of children.

This leaflet was written in June 1994.

REMEMBER THIS MEDICINE IS FOR YOU, only a doctor can prescribe it for
you.

NEVER give it to others. It may harm them, even if their symptoms are
the same as yours.

Want To Know More?

Then join the Airmail Club. Free membership of this club entitles you to
complementary Airmail newsletters which are for anyone concerned with
longstanding breathing problems. Not just for patients, but for carers
too, they hope to inform, educate, support and entertain all those who
read them. The information provided is designed to complement that given
by your doctor, practice nurse or pharmacist.

To join the club, send your name and address (please print) to:

Airmail, Freepost, P.O. Box 70, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 4GR.

+---+------------+
|   | Boehringer |
|   |            |
|   | Ingelheim  |
+---+------------+
