Unknown

  --
  --

‘Augmentin’ dispersible tablets 375 mg

PLEASE READ THIS LEAFLET BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

Always follow your doctor's advice. If there is anything you do not
understand, or if you have any questions, please ask your doctor or
pharmacist (chemist).

Information for patients and carers

Your 'Augmentin' comes in round white tablets.

'Augmentin' dispersible tablets come in packs of 21.

Contents

'Augmentin' 375 mg dispersible tablets each contain 250 mg amoxycillin
and 125 mg clavulanic acid. Both of these ingredients are antibiotics
and together they are known as co-amoxiclav. The other ingredients in
the tablets are polyvinylpyrrolidone, silica (E551), saccharin sodium,
pineapple, strawberry and blood orange flavours, magnesium stearate
(E572), and microcrystalline cellulose (E460). Each tablet contains 1.14
mg of sodium

Product licence holder:

Beecham Group plc (trading as Beecham Research),

Mundells, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY

Product Authorisation holder:

SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ltd, (trading as Beecham Research),
Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, Ireland.

Manufacturer: Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Worthing, West Sussex.

What is ‘Augmentin’?

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| 'Augmentin' is an antibiotic for treating infections It belongs |   |
| to a group of antibiotics called "penicillins". 'Augmentin'     |   |
| works by killing the bacteria that can cause infections.        |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Why has your doctor prescribed 'Augmentin'?                     |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+

‘Augmentin’ can treat a wide range of bacterial infections including
those of the chest (bronchitis or pneumonia), tonsils (tonsillitis).
sinuses (sinusitis). ears, skin, the bladder or the urethra (the tube
which carries urine from the bladder), kidneys, teeth and gums
(abscesses), and bone and joints.

Before taking your medicine

Let your doctor know if any of the following apply to you:

æ You have ever had a skin rash or swelling of the face or neck when
taking any antibiotic.

æ You know you are allergic to penicillin (or any other antibiotic).

æ You have ever had a serious complaint - such as liver problems - when
taking an antibiotic.

æ You are taking a contraceptive pill (in which case you will need to
take extra contraceptive precautions such as using a condom).

æ You are pregnant, think you might be pregnant, or are breast-feeding.

æ You are being treated for kidney or liver problems.

æ You have glandular fever.

æ You are taking any medicine (such as warfarin) to prevent blood

clots.

æ You are under 12 years of age.

If any of the above do apply to you, your doctor may decide you need a
different medicine instead of 'Augmentin' or a different dose of
'Augmentin'.

How to take 'Augmentin'

Your doctor will tell you how many tablets you should take. Usually you
have to take the tablets three times a day. Your doctor's instructions
are on the label of the tablets' container, so read it carefully. If you
have any questions, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.

Each 'Augmentin' dispersible tablet should be stirred into a little
water

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| before being swallowed.                                         |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| For the best results, take 'Augmentin' just before meals.       |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Try to take your tablets so that it becomes part of your daily  |   |
| routine, for example at meal times.                             |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| But remember, whenever you take your tablets, space the doses   |   |
| as evenly as possible through the day.                          |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Try not to take more than one dose every four hours and never   |   |
| take two doses within one hour or so                            |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+

Keep on taking the tablets, even if you feel better.

You need every tablet to help you fight off the infection. If you stop
taking your tablets before the end of the course, some bacteria may
survive and cause the infection to come back.

If you still feel unwell after finishing the treatment, go and see your
doctor.

Never take more than the recommended dose each day.

What if I forget to take a dose?

If you forget to take a tablet, take it as soon as you remember. Then
carry on as before. Try to wait about four hours before taking the next
dose. Do not take two doses within one hour or so.

What if I take too much?

If you have taken too many tablets all at once, contact your doctor or
local hospital casualty department at once. Show the doctor your pack of
tablets.

Information on possible side effects

A few people may find this medicine upsets their stomach or gives them
diarrhoea. The symptoms are usually mild and you may prevent them by
taking the tablets just before meals.

Some people get a rash when they take antibiotics. If you start to itch
or get a rash, stop taking 'Augmentin' and tell your doctor at once.
Other side effects include a swollen face and breathing problems. But
these are extremely rare. Tell your doctor straight away if you notice
any of these symptoms.

Some people may get thrush (a yeast infection of the vagina, mouth or
skin folds) after or during treatment. You can get treatment for thrush
from your doctor or pharmacist.

As with most medicines, 'Augmentin' can sometimes cause rare and serious
reactions. See your doctor straight away if you:

· get severe diarrhoea with bleeding;

· notice your urine becoming darker or faeces (otherwise known as poo)
becoming paler; or

· notice your skin or the whites of your eyes turning yellow.

Some of these reactions can be delayed for several weeks after finishing
the treatment.

If you are having blood tests, tell your doctor you are taking
'Augmentin'. This is because 'Augmentin' sometimes causes short-term
changes in blood cell counts.

If you get any other problems while taking this medicine tell your
doctor or pharmacist.

Storing 'Augmentin'

Don't take your tablets if the expiry date printed on the pack has
passed.

Keep the tablets in their packet and store them in a dry place. Keep all
medicines well out of the reach of children — it's best to lock them in
a cupboard or medicine cabinet.

If your doctor asks you to stop taking this medicine, or if for any
other reason you have some tablets left over, please return them to the
pharmacist.

Remember, this medicine is just for you. Do not give it to anyone else.
It may not be suitable for them, even if their symptoms seem to be the
same as yours.

Put this leaflet somewhere safe until you have finished taking all the
medicine.

  --
  --

Leaflet prepared in April 1995

1995 SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals

'Augmentin' is a trade mark of SmithKline Beecham
