Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet on

'Augmentin' (co-amoxiclav) Intravenous

This leaflet tells you about 'Augmentin' Intravenous. Please read it
carefully. If there is anything you do not understand, or if you want to
know more about your treatment, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist
(chemist).

Please keep this leaflet. You may want to read it again.

What is 'Augmentin' Intravenous?

'Augmentin' Intravenous contains two active ingredients. One of these is
a penicillin called amoxycillin and the other is clavulanic acid.
Together they are known as co-amoxiclav.

'Augmentin' Intravenous is available in two strengths. Your doctor will
decide which strength you need.

'Augmentin' Intravenous 600 mg vials each contain amoxycillin 500 mg
with clavulanic acid 100 mg (co-amoxiclav 500/100).

'Augmentin' Intravenous 1.2 g vials each contain amoxycillin 1000 mg
with clavulanic acid 200 mg (co-amoxiclav 1000/200).

The vials for injection contain no other ingredients.

  ----------------- -------------------------------- ----------------
  Sodium content:   'Augmentin' Intravenous 600 mg   37 mg per vial
                    'Augmentin' Intravenous 1.2 g    71 mg per vial
  ----------------- -------------------------------- ----------------

The vials are supplied to your doctor in packs of 10.

Who makes 'Augmentin' Intravenous?

Product Licence Holder: Beecham Croup plc, trading as Beecham Research,
Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY

Manufacturer: SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Worthing, West Sussex.

What is 'Augmentin'?

'Augmentin' is an antibiotic for treating infections. It belongs to a
group of antibiotics called "penicillins". 'Augmentin' works by killing
the bacteria that can cause infections.

Why is your doctor giving you 'Augmentin'?

'Augmentin' can treat a wide range of bacterial infections including
those of the chest (bronchitis or pneumonia), tonsils (tonsillitis),
sinuses (sinusitis), ears, bones and joints, skin and the kidney,
bladder or the urethra (the tube which carries urine from the bladder).

'Augmentin' Intravenous is also used to prevent infections which can
occur after major surgery.

Before having this medicine

Let your doctor know if any of the following apply to you:

· You have ever had a skin rash or swelling of the face or neck when
taking any antibiotic

· You know that you are allergic to penicillin or any other antibiotic

· You have ever had a serious complaint such as liver problems, when
taking an antibiotic

· You are taking a contraceptive pill (in which case you will need to
take extra contraceptive precautions, such as using a condom).

· You are pregnant or think you might be pregnant, or are breast feeding

· You are being treated for kidney or liver problems

· You have glandular fever

· You are taking any medicine to prevent blood clots (such as warfarin)

If any of the above do apply to you, your doctor may decide that you
need another medicine instead of 'Augmentin' or a different dose of
'Augmentin'.

Having this medicine

Your medicine will be given to you by injection or infusion into a vein
(intravenous). Your doctor will decide how much you need each day and
how often the injections should be given.

The usual dose for treating infection is:

Adults and children over 12 years: 1.2 g every eight hours.

Children under 12 years: 30 mg for each kilogram of body weight every
eight hours.

Very young babies will be treated every 12 hours.

These doses can be increased in more serious infections.

To prevent infections after an operation the usual adult dose is 1.2 g
before the operation when you are given your anaesthetic.

If you think you have missed an injection, speak to your doctor or
nurse.

Information on possible side effects

A few people find this medicine upsets their stomach or gives them
diarrhoea. The symptoms are usually mild.

Some people get a rash when they take antibiotics. If you start to itch
or get a rash tell your doctor or nurse at once.

Other side effects include a swollen face and breathing problems. But
these are extremely rare. Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you
notice these symptoms.

Some people may get thrush (a yeast infection of the vagina, mouth or
skin folds) after or during treatment. You can get treatment for thrush
from your doctor or pharmacist.

There may be some pain or swelling at the injection site.

As with most medicines, 'Augmentin' can sometimes cause rare and serious
reactions. See your doctor straight away if you:

· get severe diarrhoea with bleeding

· notice your urine becoming darker or your faeces (stools) becoming
paler

or

× notice your skin or the whites of your eyes turning yellow.

Some of these reactions can be delayed for several weeks after finishing
the treatment.

If you are having blood tests, tell your doctor you are having
'Augmentin'. This is because 'Augmentin' sometimes causes short-term
changes in blood cell counts.

If you get any other unwanted effects while taking 'Augmentin' tell your
doctor or nurse.

Storing 'Augmentin'

'Augmentin' Injection should be stored in a dry place below 25°C until
it is given to you.

There is an expiry date on the label, the doctor or nurse will check
that this date has not passed.

Leaflet prepared October 1995

'Augmentin' is a trade mark.

© 1996 Beecham Research.
