Unknown

Bactroban Ointment

Patient Information Leaflet on 'Bactroban' Ointment

Please read this leaflet before you start to use your medicine.

It is essential to follow your doctor's advice. If there is anything you
do not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Keep this leaflet until you have finished your prescribed course of
'Bactroban' Ointment. You may want to read it again.

It you are helping someone else to use this medicine, please read this
leaflet before you apply the first dose .

YOUR MEDICINE IS 'BACTROBAN' OINTMENT

What is 'Bactroban' Ointment?

'Bactroban' Ointment is the manufacturer's name for this antibiotic
product. 'Bactroban' Ointment does not contain penicillin, the active
ingredient is called mupirocin.

What does 'Bactroban' Ointment do?

'Bactroban' Ointment acts against the bacteria that cause skin
infections.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT 'BACTROBAN' OINTMENT

1. This ointment should be used only on the skin. The treated area can
then be covered with a suitable dressing if desired.

Take care to avoid the eyes.

2. Before using ANY medicines you should tell your doctor if you are
pregnant (or think you may be), or it you are breast feeding.

3. Use 'Bactroban' Ointment as directed by your doctor. Read the
dispensing label.

4. Like all medicines, 'Bactroban' Ointment can sometimes cause unwanted
effects. (You will find more about this later in this leaflet.)

5. ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.

For more information on 'Bactroban' Ointment, please read the rest of
this leaflet.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

What should I do it I think I am pregnant (or I am breast feeding)?

Do not use 'Bactroban' Ointment without consulting your doctor.

Am I allergic to 'Bactroban' Ointment?

Do you think you have had a previous reaction to ‘Bactroban'
(mupirocin), or polyethylene glycol? If so, do not use this medicine;
tell your doctor. You may need to be given another medicine instead.

What should I do if I think I have any other medical conditions?

Do not start using 'Bactroban' Ointment if you have kidney problems. You
should consult your doctor first and you may need to be given another
medicine instead.

USING YOUR MEDICINE

How should I apply 'Bactroban' Ointment?

Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to use your medicine.
Unless otherwise instructed, after applying the 'Bactroban', you may
cover the affected area with a suitable dressing if desired.

If ‘Bactroban’ Ointment is being used on the face, take care to avoid
the eyes. 'Bactroban' Ointment is not suitable for use inside the nose.

Unless specifically directed by your doctor, do not use 'Bactroban'
Ointment on damaged skin or open wounds.

Your pharmacist or doctor can help if you are not sure.

How long should I carry on using 'Bactroban' Ointment?

Follow your doctor's directions on how long to apply the ointment. If
your skin condition has not improved, return to your doctor.

What should I do if I forget to apply the ointment at the right time?

If you forget to apply the ointment at the night time, apply it as soon
as you remember. Then carry on as before, but do not apply two doses
within an hour or so of each other.

AFTER TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might it have?

A few people may have a feeling of burning, stinging or itching after
applying 'Bactroban' Ointment. This effect will not last long.

If you suffer badly, or have any other unusual problems, while you are
using this medicine, contact your doctor.

STORING YOUR MEDICINE

How long should I store 'Bactroban' Ointment?

Keep the medicine at room temperature (below 25°C/77°F) and in its
original packaging.

KEEP ALL MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN – preferably in a locked
cupboard or medicine cabinet.

What should I do with any medicine which is left at the end of
treatment? Return any left-over medicine to your pharmacist. Do not keep
it for further use.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them, even if
their symptoms seem the same as yours.

MORE INFORMATION

'Bactroban' Ointment contains 2% of mupirocin, in a white polyethylene
glycol base, in each 15 g tube.

'Bactroban' Ointment is water soluble and does not stain the skin or
clothing. It is easily removed by washing.

If the area is not covered by a dressing, care should be taken to avoid
contact with any surfaces.

UK Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder: Beecham Group plc,
Brentford, trading as Beecham Research, Welwyn Garden City,
Hertfordshire, England AL7 1EY.

Product Authorisation Holder: SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ltd,
trading as Beecham Research, Corrig Avenue, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin,
Ireland.

How can I obtain more information about 'Bactroban'?

In this short leaflet, we can give you only the most important
information about 'Bactroban' Ointment. If you would like to know more,
ask your doctor or pharmacist.

BEECHAM RESEARCH

'Bactroban' is a trade mark

© 1993 Beecham Research

Leaflet prepared in February 1993
